add known issues in statistics guide (#2383)
ExtremeFLOW/neko: doc/pages/user-guide/statistics-guide.md

| 2 | \f$ \langle \alpha_t \frac{\partial s}{\partial x} \rangle \f$ | X-Velocity|
| 3 | \f$ \langle \alpha_t \frac{\partial s}{\partial y} \rangle \f$ | Y-Velocity|
| 4 | \f$ \langle \alpha_t \frac{\partial s}{\partial z} \rangle \f$ | Z-Velocity |

# Known issues {#known-issues}

> There are at least two known issues that is worth keeping in mind when working with the statistics component in Neko: 

Reviewer: Whether these are _issues_ is, in my opinion, subjective. 
```suggestion
# Note to users {#note-to-users}

```

> 1. if one computes statistics from time 0 (`"start_time": 0.0`), the first entry in the `stats0` file will be zero-filled (both for scalar and fluid statistics). \

Reviewer: A zero-filled stats file is always dumped at `start_time`, not only when it is set to `0.0`. Please change accordingly.

Author: Actually I don't get a zero-filled stats file first entry if I start from something different than 0.0, I just tested it

Reviewer: You are right! My bad. 

That is so strange, I ran the cylinder example as a test case and then I got it to write directly at the start time. 

I did some more tests and it turns out that if you carefully align the output control with the start time you can get it to write at start_time. But in general that is not true. 

So this would write at 1.0, but that is because of the output_value of course :)
```json
"output_control": "simulationtime",
"output_value": 1.0,
"start_time": 1.0
```

So then it all comes down to that our output controllers just trigger in general at the first timestep.

Then I will resolve this conversation.

Author: Should we then change it to something like this maybe?
```diff
- 1. if one computes statistics from time 0 (`"start_time": 0.0`), the first entry in the `stats0` file will be zero-filled (both for scalar and fluid statistics).
+ 1. often, the first entry in the `stats0` file will be zero-filled (both for scalar and fluid statistics). An exception to this is when `"output_value"` is aligned to `"start_time"`.
```

> This means that one should discard the first $N$ rows of the `.csv` file, where $N$ is the number of elements in the non-averaged direction. \

Reviewer: this might be too specific, please keep in mind that not everyone uses 1D-averaged `csv` files.

> This also means that the initial conditions _do not_ appear in the `stats0` file. \

Reviewer 2: I do not think that initial conditions need to appear in statistics files. I would expect anything in the statistics file to be averaged in some way. In the case of start_time = 0, The reason you get zeros is because there is because delta__averaging_t = 0, and therefore everything is weighted by zero. So it is an average in a sense.

> This issue has been discussed more in detail in [#2378](https://github.com/ExtremeFLOW/neko/issues/2378). A possible workaround is to simply ignore the first $N$ rows of the file when checking the results, or to use a `"start_time"` slightly higher than `0.0`.

Reviewer: - Whether this is an issue that needs a workaround can be discussed. I would simply refer the user to the discussion on this issue.
- See my previous comment about csv files and the `start_time`

Author: I do think it needs a workaround, but what I proposed is probably not a proper workaround, so I'll just take out that part

2. when `"end_time"` is an exact multiple of `"output_value"` (e.g. `"end_time": 1000.0`, `"output_value": 100.0`), the resulting `.csv` file has the last timestep repeated twice, with the second one having zeros everywhere (both for fluid and scalar statistics). \
This means the last $N$ rows of the file should be discarded. The issue only appears when `"output_at_end"` is turned on. \

> This issue has been discussed more in detail in [#2278](https://github.com/ExtremeFLOW/neko/issues/2278). The obvious workaround is to turn off `"output_at_end"`; alternatively, one can set `"end_time"` as a non-multiple of `"output_value"` (e.g. `"end_time": 1001.0`, `"output_value": 100.0`).

Reviewer 2: I am not sure this is the obvious workaround. It is more common to need to run simulations over multiple days, so turning this off might not be a good idea.

Author: True, I did not think of that. I will just take out the workaround suggestions: I think the users can get there by themselves or open a discussion

> This issue has been discussed more in detail in [#2278](https://github.com/ExtremeFLOW/neko/issues/2278). The obvious workaround is to turn off `"output_at_end"`; alternatively, one can set `"end_time"` as a non-multiple of `"output_value"` (e.g. `"end_time": 1001.0`, `"output_value": 100.0`).

Reviewer: This is the intended behavior of `output_at_end` and has already been documented (see [the case file documentation](https://neko.cfd/docs/develop/dd/d33/case-file.html)).

<img width="1633" height="1243" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89892675-3441-442e-bdb1-eb6e1b1ca585" />

Author: I have added a reference to the case file documentation, but I'd still keep this here as well as it's strictly related to the `stats0` files

> Both these issues are relatively easy to avoid or work around, but can silently mess up the postprocessing of a simulation for the unaware user.

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary.
```suggestion

```

| 2 | \f$ \langle \alpha_t \frac{\partial s}{\partial x} \rangle \f$ | X-Velocity|
| 3 | \f$ \langle \alpha_t \frac{\partial s}{\partial y} \rangle \f$ | Y-Velocity|
| 4 | \f$ \langle \alpha_t \frac{\partial s}{\partial z} \rangle \f$ | Z-Velocity |

# Note to users {#note-to-users}

The general recommendation is to always use weighted averages to analyse the
statistics. When using an arithmetic average, it is important to keep in mind
the following two characteristics of the `stats0` files:

1. If one computes statistics from time 0 (`"start_time": 0.0`), the first

>    entry in the `stats0` file will be zero-filled (both for scalar and fluid

Reviewer: To make it more general, the name "stats0" is specific to the `csv` format
```suggestion
   sample will be zero-filled (both for scalar and fluid
```

   statistics). This issue has been discussed more in detail in
   [#2378](https://github.com/ExtremeFLOW/neko/issues/2378).

2. When `"end_time"` is an exact multiple of `"output_value"` (e.g.
   `"end_time": 1000.0`, `"output_value": 100.0`), the resulting `.csv` file
   has the last timestep repeated twice, with the second one having zeros
   everywhere (both for fluid and scalar statistics).
   This is the intended behaviour of `output_at_end` - please see
   [the case file documentation](https://neko.cfd/docs/develop/dd/d33/case-file.html).
   This issue has been discussed more in detail in
   [#2278](https://github.com/ExtremeFLOW/neko/issues/2278).

> Note also that the initial conditions _do not_ appear in the `stats0` file.

Reviewer: If we already say that the first stats file is filled with zeroes, is this still necessary?
```suggestion

```
